around the planet, encompassing the orbits of its two
closest moonlets.
   However, Jupiter’s gravity is also a valuable
resource. Craft bound for Saturn and beyond can
slingshot themselves outward by circling the planet
to pick up velocity, cutting months or years off their
trips. The heavily militarized Jovian Republic levies
tolls against all spacecraft using Jupiter’s gravity to
pick up velocity, including asteroids under propul-
sion. This protection money is the Junta’s primary
source of revenue. Planetary Consortium ships gener-
ally accept the payment as part of operating expens-
es. Other factions are not so cooperative, and the
Junta regularly seizes or destroys blockade runners.

HABITATS AND MOONLETS
Most of Jupiter’s moons are really captured aster-
oids, lacking the size and geological complexity of
planetary bodies. All are occupied. Some were con-
verted to habitats; others host only Junta military and
mining outposts. The Jovian moonlets consist mostly
of carbonaceous rock, poor in metal, with some of
the larger moonlets having layers or even cores of ice.
Beehive habitats and Reagan cylinders predominate in
the Jovian system. Reagan cylinders (called “sarcopha-
gus habs” by every other faction) are an inefficient
variation on the O’Neill cylinder in which excavators
hollow out an immense, cylindrical cavern in a rocky
asteroid and then alter the asteroid’s rotation with
external thrusters to simulate gravity.
   Other habitat types are rare in Jovian orbit, espe-
cially within 2 million kilometers of the planet, where
the radiation is strongest. For a bioconservative fac-
tion unwilling to adopt radiation-resistant morphs, the
Junta is in a poor location. Shielding their populace
beneath tons of rock is a necessity. Despite its military
hegemony, the Junta can’t control all of Jovian space,
and there are things it can’t do on its own—like ex-
ploring Europa. A number of unaligned habitats and
surface settlements exist in the ring system and the
orbits of the Galilean moons.
   The Jovian Republic has renamed Jupiter’s moons
after various neo-conservative heroes from Earth’s
history. From closest to most distant, the moonlets are
Metis (Bush), Adrastea (Fairway), Amalthea (Solano),
Thebe (McAllen), Leda (Chung), Himalia (Pinochet),
Lysithea (Friedman), Elara (Buckley), Ananke (Nixon),
Carme (Kissinger), Pasiphae (Schilling), and Sinope
(Garcia). All are tiny, between 5 and 100 kilometers
in diameter.

AMALTHEA (SOLANO)
The largest of the moonlets, hollow Amalthea is prob-
ably the most livable sarcophagus habitat due to the
large lake created from its icy core. Living on Solano
carries some prestige among Junta citizens. Rumor has
it that most of the residents are well-placed RAND
think tank personnel, most of whom work on defense
projects. A fusion-powered axial light tube illumi-
nates the 30-kilometer diameter central cavern, whose
