                                                             - The gamemaster should be familiar with the

NPCS AND MOXIE                                                 whole game. This doesn't mean the rulebook
                                                               must be memorized. An understanding of the core
When a gamemaster is generating or wing-                       mechanics is a must, however, as well as knowing
ing NPCs that the characters interact or fight                 where to find other rules quickly, as needed.
with, the question of Moxie for NPCs must be                 - The gamemaster should have solid notes on the
addressed. When it comes to run-of-the-mill                    plots and subplots created for each session. Noth-
grunt NPC characters, we recommend that such                   ing will ensure you prepare better next time like
NPCs don't be given Moxie. The reasons for this                having the players catch you in a major continu-
are simple. For one, it is one less stat/headache              ity error due to lack of notes.
for the gamemaster to keep track of. More im-                - The gamemaster doesn't just set the scene, they
portantly, however, it represents the edge that                play all the non-player characters that populate
player characters have over the nameless mooks                 the universe. Making each NPC convincing, while
they encounter. When it comes to major NPCs,                   not messing up a plot or losing the thread of a
however—prime antagonists, key allies, etc.—                   scene, can be difficult. Notes are your friend.
these characters should have their own Moxie                 - Know when it's time to toss the dice and trust
score. Because such NPCs play pivotal roles in a               to the game mechanics to resolve a situation and
scenario, it is important for them to be able to               when it's better to ride out a situation through
alter the outcome of events in much the same                   storytelling and dialog. This is an acquired skill.
way the player characters can. It also allows a                The more practice you have, the better you'll get.
gamemaster to counteract an unfortunate roll                 - Don't cheat. Your NPCs should not have access
of the dice that might otherwise spoil the big                 to information they've not gained during game
climax you have worked so hard to set up.       ■              play. If you roll terribly for your major antago-
                                                               nist at the height of the story and they fall with
                                                               a whimper, roll with it. Be flexible and improvise
 life were (to help jog your memory later). This way,          in such situations. Your players are smart and
 if the character ever reverts back to one of these save       perceptive and will know when you're forcing
 points, you have notes not only on their character            a situation with unfair tactics. At the same time,
 stats, but what they remember.                                they'll also know when you've stepped up and
    Alternately, you can keep a log of all of your             run with the flow—and they'll thank you for it.
 character's developments, noted by in-character
 date. These developments would include: Rez Points        FUNDAMENTALS
 spent or earned, character advancements made, key         It's possible to stumble into a campaign without ever
 information acquired, backups made, alpha or beta         really making an effort to find out what everyone
 forks made, and so on. In this case, if the character     wants, shooting into the darkness and happening to
 dies and reverts back to an earlier backup, it is easy    score a bullseye, but it's not a very reliable way to go.
 to see what changes need to be “rolled back” to get       Successful campaigns usually begin with communica-
 back to that previous version of the character. When      tion. As you begin to prepare your campaign, talk to
 alpha and beta forks are made, you may also want to       your players. Explain the basics of the Eclipse Phase
 branch off a separate log for each fork, as their life    setting and let them look over the options for charac-
 stream may develop differently than from the original     ters and tell you what they find interesting. Also take
 character they were spun off from.                        note of what they find uninteresting or even repellent,
                                                           so that nobody wastes a lot of time getting set for op-
  GAMEMASTERING PRACTICALITIES                             tions that simply won't be enjoyable in play.
 Eclipse Phase is a game about a dark future in which
 the meaning of (trans)humanity and its very survival      CHALLENGES TO PLAYERS
 are at stake. In practice, however, your campaign can     Eclipse Phase is set in a time of catastrophic troubles
 take on a wide assortment of flavors or even mix          and looming disasters, and it's full of facts and con-
 several styles together. There's nothing that says you    cepts that may be heady or even uncomfortable to
 have to play Eclipse Phase specifically according to      some players—not to mention their characters. One of
 the guidelines we set out. This section covers topics     the fundamental questions for each gaming group is,
 you should think about while preparing a campaign         how much challenge to the players' sense of comfort is
 and running it, to help you do things the way that        a good idea? There is no single answer, because tastes
 makes you and your players happiest.                      vary. There are groups whose players thrive on a diet
                                                           of culture shock, ideological disorientation, gray areas,
  GAMEMASTER RESPONSIBILITIES                              and difficult ethical choices. They love the moral and
 The gamemaster has certain responsibilities that will     intellectual battleground gaming can provide, and
 keep a game flowing smoothly. The following is a          are seldom so happy as when confronted with a
 short summary of the basics.                              really hard, really interesting dilemma. There are also
                                                           groups whose players thrive on a diet of intellectual
